---
title: 'Overview'
updated: '2025-12-14'
author: Rune Docs Team
description: 'Kubernetes component overview, image manifest, and system requirements.'
tags:
  - ecosystem
  - hygon
  - dcu
  - kubernetes
---
## Overview

Kubernetes (k8s for short) is an open source container orchestration platform used to automate the deployment, scaling and management of containerized applications.

The DCU Kubernetes component is used to support the use and monitoring of DCU on k8s. Through these components, users can flexibly allocate, manage and monitor DCU or virtual DCU (vDCU) resources in a Kubernetes cluster.

## Kubernetes components

- **DCU-Label-Node**: Published in the form of a container and deployed in the form of a DaemonSet; during runtime, it checks whether a DCU exists on the node, and if it exists, a node label is automatically created to describe the DCU information.
- **DCU-Exporter**: Provides DCU/vDCU device monitoring indicators and supports Prometheus integration, which can monitor temperature, power consumption, video memory usage, etc. in real time.
- **DCU-Device-Plugin**: Based on the Kubernetes Device Plugin framework, it exposes DCU/vDCU to k8s to complete resource registration, scheduling and allocation; supports physical cards, pre-sharded vDCU and dynamically split vDCU, and is compatible with HAMi.
- **vDCU-Scheduler**: consists of `k8s-vdcu-admission-webhook` and `k8s-vdcu-scheduler`; works with DCU-Device-Plugin to complete vDCU dynamic allocation, and can be seamlessly switched with the HAMi scheduler.

## Component image list

| Image name | Component to which it belongs |
| --- | --- |
| image.sourcefind.cn:5000/dcu/admin/base/dcu-label-node | DCU-Label-Node |
| image.sourcefind.cn:5000/dcu/admin/base/dcu-exporter | DCU-Exporter |
| image.sourcefind.cn:5000/dcu/admin/base/dcu-device-plugin | DCU-Device-Plugin |
| image.sourcefind.cn:5000/dcu/admin/base/k8s-vdcu-admission-webhook | vDCU-Scheduler |
| image.sourcefind.cn:5000/dcu/admin/base/k8s-vdcu-scheduler | vDCU-Scheduler |

## System requirements

| Category | Requirements |
| --- | --- |
| Hardware requirements | Install Hygon DCU. The currently supported DCU models are: Z100L, K100/K100-AI/K100-AI-ECO, and BW series |
| Software requirements | Driver version ≥ 6.2.26; k8s version ≥ 1.18 |
| OS requirements | Linux (Ubuntu 20.04 and above, CentOS 7.6 and above recommended); Windows not supported |